# Cover Page
The problem: Human-wildlife conflicts not only have significant direct consequences on human health and welfare, but also deteriorates psychological wellbeing. Biodiversity and the health of the ecosystem on the other hand have also suffered from human-wildlife conflict. This depreciation affected a plethora of species including the striped hyena that has been listed as “near threatened globally” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Striped hyenas are Lebanon’s national animal, which is where they’ve mostly witnessed poisoning, running over, and shooting on sight by frightened humans (New York Times, 2019). Hyenas aren’t the only species witnessing injustice, horrific animal cruelty also happens very often in Lebanon to domesticated and stray animals like dogs, cats, and others. 

Program: The keys to coexistence are education, communication, science, and behavior modification. As such, the program focuses on education with the aim of behavior modification (Kellert S. R., 1984). In other words, it is to assist children between the ages of 10 and 12 years old in developing compassion and positive attitudes towards animals. People & Animals (Savesky, & Malcarne, V. 1981), A Humane Education Curriculum Guide developed by the National Association for Humane and Environmental Education is used. Instead of adding a class to the already existing classes, the guides will blend with the existing courses namely math, social studies, language arts, health & sciences. Activities such as role playing, creative writing, readings, storytelling, photographs, and watching animal-related television programs are included in the program. The “farm animals” section of the curriculum is not used in this study. Both, non-message-based approaches (pet animals), and message-based approaches (wild-animals) will be used. There will be a focus on the aspects of animals that are most salient and relatable to the children. 

Program theory:  Recent studies have shown that environmental education should go beyond just the facts because knowledge and attitudes have a very low correlation; thus, mere knowledge does not promote compassion and positive attitudes (Morgan and Gramann, 1989, LaHart 1978.) The National Association for Humane and Environmental Education's curriculum guides focus on the goal of “assisting children in developing compassion, a sense of justice, and a respect for all living things" (Ascione, F.R. 1992), making it a perfect fit for our intended outcome. Lastly, the ages 10 to 12 years old were chosen because several researchers suggested that it is between these ages that the person is actively seeking knowledge to form attitudes towards animals which is exactly when the right intervention would be mostly impactful (Westervelt & Llewellyn, 1985).  

The dependent variable in the study: The primary outcome of interest is positive attitudes towards animals.

Program inclusion criteria: Students between the ages of 10-12 years old in schools within and around the Jabal Moussa, Kesserouan area – one of the stiped hyenas preferred habitat – are eligible to participate. Number of participants is limited to the resource capacity namely conservationist trainers. The cap is 500 participants. Students must have similar, non-impeded cognitive and affective abilities, else, they will be excluded from the study. 

Motivation of the Study: United nations partners are proposing to provide $2 million worth of funds over ten years to approved awareness and educational campaigns to reduce animal cruelty and human-wildlife conflicts for the conservation of biodiversity. Strong evidence is needed for program effectiveness before this kind of support is provided.
